#1. One time that I faced a major technical obstacle was when I was faced with strangely duplicated records in a database used by my sales tracking application. A user reported a bug where the amount of inventory was reportedly inconsistently between different parts of the application. I started by exploring the exact database rows that were impacted, and found that there were multiple quantities of a single product type attached to a user, when there should only ever be one of each type. After a long time investigating determining how this could have occurred, I realized that it might happen if the user sells an item at the exact same time that another user transfers an item of the same type to them. To finally fix this bug, I added a mutex that ensures two areas of the application can't attempt to modify the same inventory record at the same time, ensuring that this kind of data corruption can never happen.

#3. The non-technical skill that I am most proud of is my commitment. Throughout all of my life, I have driven myself to excel in whatever I choose to do. When I was on a robotics team in high school, this manifested in my dedication to completing programming the robot, no matter the difficulty. In many cases I would be given a limited time, often only a few days, to program and test the entire system. I strategically arranged my time so that I would be available to complete what I needed to. I still carry that skill with me through college, where a confluence of classes often results in crunch times. I always complete all of my work, even if it means staying up late to do so. I won't simply drop a task if it seems too difficult; I'll find a way to make it happen if I said that I would.

#5. Yes, I have led a project. For one of my final courses in college, I was tasked with developing a senior capstone project along with 2 other students. I was the most experienced out of us, so I naturally ended up taking the lead. I was in charge of creating tasks and assigning them to all of us. I also decided the majority of the architecture and technology that we would be using to develop our project. This leadership allowed us to complete the project on time and meet all of the goals that we had originally set, despite having a limited amount of time to do so. I gained several new skills involved in managing a team, such as effective communication and identifying strengths and weaknesses of team members.
