Luke Borowy - Personal Reflection

I have been on my computer science journey for a longer time than many other students. I first learned Python when I was 11, and I have continuously picked up more languages and skills as I grew up. Throughout my education at St. Thomas, the most important things I have learned have been the theoretical basis for my practical knowledge and the soft skills that come from collaborating with others.

An example of the way that theoretical knowledge has improved my technical skills is by giving me insight on a game project that I am working on. Although not listed in my portfolio due to incompleteness, I am quite far along in developing a game that can be played on a TI84 graphing calculator. I learned in my Algorithms class that I could drastically increase the speed of a pathfinding algorithm by using a breadth-first search instead of Dijkstra's algorithm. Without the class, I would have been able to complete the project, but not in an optimal fashion. 

I believe the examples from my portfolio that best demonstrate my overall growth as a programmer and as a professional are the Stikk.io project and the Dungeon Party project. Both of these projects are based on similar technologies, but Dungeon Party is much larger in scope. During this project, my soft skills in leadership and technical knowledge of game development were perfect complements to each other. 

I was able to apply the things that I had learned about effective architecture and clean coding to lead a team in creating this project, based on my past experience with Stikk.io. My recommendation to use Typescript instead of pure Javascript were based on several years of experience of type errors that would have been prevented by using a stricter-typed language. In Stikk.io, I used Node.js with websockets to allow anyone to join and play together. For Dungeon Party, this feature was refined and edited to allow people to join specific groups to play with their friends. 

My leadership, on the other hand, helped me to commit our group to certain tasks and finish them on time. I set effective deadlines and goals that would allow us to finish the project on time. I used my experience from my robotics team to understand the potential crunch time needed if the timeline begins to slip. I was generally in charge of managing the creation of tasks and ensuring that assignments fulfilled the requirements after we had completed them. 

However, I also underwent some significant growth in teamwork ability. Previously, I had primarily worked alone on software, aside from trivial group projects in classes. It was difficult at first to trust other people on my team to do parts of the project, since I assumed I could do it all myself. However, I soon learned that the only way that we would be able to achieve the goals that we set was by everyone contributing to the best of their ability. Using the Agile methodology with sprints and user stories was a great way to divide up the work in a fair and efficient way. 

Although there were some difficulties, my senior capstone project was an overall success. In contrast, many of the most difficult challenges in my programming career came from my experience in my high school robotics team. This robotics program was where I first learned how to program in Java. Our team did not have as many resources as some others, both fiscally and in terms of personnel. In the first two years that I was in the program, our robot performed poorly at the competition. This competition was an extremely high-pressure and fast-paced environment, with limited time and many potential failures. Out of these intense events, I developed resilience in the face of hardship and setbacks. FIRST Robotics, the worldwide organization that organizes the competition, emphasizes the teaching of life skills alongside technical abilities. This was certainly successful in my case. 

My personal values align well with my technical achievements. At its core, my ethical motivation for creating things is that they should make people's lives better. I have made many games, which have the obvious benefit of making someone's day a little more fun. However, this is also a sign of my deeper understanding of technology's role in society. When I first came to St. Thomas, I hadn't really thought closely about how computer science could help or hinder society. However, after taking classes in philosophy combined with the things I learned in my cybersecurity class, I came to realize that programmers have an immense responsibility. The world's most critical systems of government, banking, healthcare, education, transportation, and many others all rely on software that functions reliably. Therefore, it is our duty to learn well and work carefully to keep the world on the right track.

As I move forward in my life, I will continue to expand my technical skill set by learning new frameworks and languages via personal projects and exploration. In my professional career, I will surely encounter all kinds of new people and ways of working which will force me to adapt and grow. I will improve my soft skills by proactively seeking out new ways of thinking and collaborating with people different from myself. 




